add an option to use credential_configuration_id in credential request (#392)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

The following subsections illustrate some of the authorization flows supported by this specification.

### Identifying Credentials Being Issued Throughout the Issuance Flow {#identifying_credential}

Below is the summary of how Credential(s) that are being issued are identified throughout the issuance flow:

- In the Credential Offer, the Credential Issuer identifies offered Credential Configurations
  using the `credential_configuration_ids` parameter.
- When the Wallet uses Authorization Details in the Authorization Request, the Wallet uses
  either `credential_configuration_id` parameters or `format` and other Credential Format

>   specific parameters to identify the requested Credentials. In this case,

Author: ```suggestion
  specific parameters to identify the requested Credential Configurations. In this case,
```

  the Authorization Server MUST return `credential_identifiers` parameter in the Token Response,
  and the Wallet uses those `credential_identifier` values in the Credential Request.
- When the Wallet uses `scope` parameter in the Authorization Request, the `scope` value(s)

>   are used to identify requested Credential(s). In this case, the Authorization Server has two options.

Author: ```suggestion
  are used to identify requested Credential Configurations. In this case, the Authorization Server has two options.
```

The following subsections illustrate some of the authorization flows supported by this specification.

> ### Identifying Credential(s) Being Issued throughout the Issuance Flow {#identifying_credential}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Identifying Credentials Being Issued Throughout the Issuance Flow {#identifying_credential}
```

> Below is the summary of how Credential(s) that are being issued are identified throughout the issuance flow:

Author: made changes accordingly

> - In the Credential Offer, the Credential Issuer identifies offered Credential(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the Credential Offer, the Credential Issuer identifies offered Credential Configurations
```

>   using `credential_configuration_ids` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  using the `credential_configuration_ids` parameter.
```

- When the Wallet uses Authorization Details in the Authorization Request, the Wallet uses

>   `credential_configuration_id` parameter(s) or `format` and other Credential Format
>   specific parameter to identify requested Credential(s). In which case,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  either `credential_configuration_id` parameters or `format` and other Credential Format
  specific parameters to identify the requested Credentials. In this case,
```

&client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSU...
```

> ### Request Credential using authorization_details Parameter

Author: ```suggestion
### Request Credential Issuance using authorization_details Parameter
```

In addition to the response parameters defined in [@!RFC6749], the Authorization Server MAY return the following parameters:

> * `authorization_details`: REQUIRED when the `authorization_details` parameter is used to request issuance of a certain Credential Configuration as defined in (#authorization-details). It MUST NOT be used otherwise. It is an array of objects, as defined in Section 7 of [@!RFC9396]. In addition to the parameters defined in (#authorization-details), this specification defines the following parameter to be used with the authorization details type `openid_credential` in the Token Response:

Reviewer 2: Please verify that this is your interpretation of the Hybrid DCP Call

> * `authorization_details`: REQUIRED when the `authorization_details` parameter is used to request issuance of a certain Credential Configuration as defined in (#authorization-details). The Authorization Server may also support this when issuance was requested using `scope`. It is an array of objects, as defined in Section 7 of [@!RFC9396]. In addition to the parameters defined in (#authorization-details), this specification defines the following parameter to be used with the authorization details type `openid_credential` in the Token Response:

Author: ```suggestion
* `authorization_details`: REQUIRED when the `authorization_details` parameter is used to request issuance of a Credential of a certain Credential Configuration as defined in (#authorization-details). OPTIONAL when `scope` parameter was used to request issuance of a Credential of a certain Credential Configuration. It is an array of objects, as defined in Section 7 of [@!RFC9396]. In addition to the parameters defined in (#authorization-details), this specification defines the following parameter to be used with the authorization details type `openid_credential` in the Token Response:
```

A Client makes a Credential Request to the Credential Endpoint by sending the following parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the `application/json` media type.

> * `credential_identifier`: REQUIRED when an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies a Credential Dataset that is requested for issuance. When this parameter is used, the `credential_configuration_id` parameter nor `format` parameter with any other Credential format specific parameters such as those defined in (#format-profiles) MUST NOT be present.

Reviewer 3: This might read slightly better, not sure:

```suggestion
* `credential_identifier`: REQUIRED when an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies a Credential Dataset that is requested for issuance. When this parameter is used, the `credential_configuration_id` and `format` parameters, as well as any other Credential format specific parameters such as those defined in (#format-profiles), MUST NOT be present.
```

I think we could potentially drop the 'as well as any other Credential format specific parameters such as those' part to simplify the language here, as they already say "can only be used when format parameter is present".

Author: i considered that, but given that I have received a lot of questions from the implementers not knowing there are credential format profiles, i am keen to keep it..

> * `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response or if `format` parameter is not present. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` parameter nor `format` parameter with any other Credential format specific parameters such as those defined in (#format-profiles) MUST NOT be present.

Reviewer 3: Same tweak as above:

```suggestion
* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response or if `format` parameter is not present. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` and `format` parameters, as well as any other Credential format specific parameters such as those defined in (#format-profiles), MUST NOT be present.
```

> * `format`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response or if `credential_configuration_id`. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that determines the format of the Credential to be issued, which may determine the type and any other information related to the Credential to be issued. Credential Format Profiles consist of the Credential format specific parameters that are defined in (#format-profiles). When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` nor `credential_configuration_id` parameters MUST NOT be present.

Reviewer 3: Similar tweak:

```suggestion
* `format`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response or if `credential_configuration_id`. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that determines the format of the Credential to be issued, which may determine the type and any other information related to the Credential to be issued. Credential Format Profiles consist of the Credential format specific parameters that are defined in (#format-profiles). When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` and `credential_configuration_id` parameters MUST NOT be present.
```

    * `alg`: REQUIRED. JWE [@!RFC7516] `alg` algorithm [@!RFC7518] for encrypting Credential Responses.
    * `enc`: REQUIRED. JWE [@!RFC7516] `enc` algorithm [@!RFC7518] for encrypting Credential Responses.

> `credential_configuration_id` or `format` parameters are used when the Credential issuance was requested using a `scope` value in the Authorization Request or a pre-authorisation code was used that did not return an Authorization Details.

Reviewer 3: I very much appreciate the use of the British spelling of authorisation 😁 - but I suspect "authorized" was intended:

```suggestion
The `credential_configuration_id` or `format` parameters are used when the Credential issuance was requested using a `scope` value in the Authorization Request or a Pre-Authorized Code was used that did not return an Authorization Details.
```

Author: i also use british spelling for `diving licence` :D

A Client makes a Credential Request to the Credential Endpoint by sending the following parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the `application/json` media type.

* `credential_identifier`: REQUIRED when an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies a Credential Dataset that is requested for issuance. When this parameter is used, the `credential_configuration_id` MUST NOT be present.

> * `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.

Author: ```suggestion
* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an `authorization_details` parameter of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. String that uniquely identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The corresponding object in the `credential_configurations_supported` map MUST contain one of the value(s) used in the `scope` parameter in the Authorization Request. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.
```

> * `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response or if `format` parameter is not present. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.

Reviewer 4: Isn't `format` going to be permanently no present after this change?

```suggestion
* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.
```

> * `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response or if `format` parameter is not present. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.

Reviewer 4: This one confuses me a bit.

> or if `format` parameter is not present

Where is it not present, in this request (we removed it) or in the Authorization Details?

```suggestion
* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of those in the Credential Issuer metadata. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.
```

A Client makes a Credential Request to the Credential Endpoint by sending the following parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the `application/json` media type.

* `credential_identifier`: REQUIRED when an Authorization Details of type `openid_credential` was returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. A string that identifies a Credential Dataset that is requested for issuance. When this parameter is used, the `credential_configuration_id` MUST NOT be present.

> * `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if an `authorization_details` parameter of type `openid_credential` was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. String that uniquely identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The corresponding object in the `credential_configurations_supported` map MUST contain one of the value(s) used in the `scope` parameter in the Authorization Request. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.

Author: ```suggestion
* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED if a `credential_identifiers` parameter was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. String that uniquely identifies one of the keys in the name/value pairs stored in the `credential_configurations_supported` Credential Issuer metadata. The corresponding object in the `credential_configurations_supported` map MUST contain one of the value(s) used in the `scope` parameter in the Authorization Request. When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` MUST NOT be present.
```

Authorization: Bearer czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

{
  "credential_configuration_id": "org.iso.18013.5.1.mDL",
  "proof": {
    "proof_type": "jwt",
    "jwt": "eyJraWQiOiJkaWQ6ZXhhbXBsZTplYmZlYjFmNzEyZWJjNmYxYzI3NmUxMmVjMjEva2V5cy8xIiwiYWxnIjoiRVMyNTYiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QifQ"
  }
}
```

> Below is a non-normative example of a Credential Request for two Credential instances in an IETF SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] format using a Credential identifier from the Token Response and key proof type `jwt`:

Reviewer 4: Is this sentence correct, how do we know that it is a request for a IETF SD-JWT VC credential if we only have the credential_identifier?

> Below is a non-normative example of a Credential Request for two Credential instances in an IETF SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] format using a Credential identifier from the Token Response and key proof type `jwt`:

Reviewer 4: Is this sentence correct, how do we know what exact format we are asking for if we only have the `credential_identifier`?

Similar question for: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/392/files?diff=split&w=0#diff-1f424614b35a9899813079f1b1f6218631a2aedd993368ccb89bb81a9eda0289R858

Reviewer 2: Credential identifiers are returned for a specific credential configuration or scope, so I think it should be clear

  "credential_identifier": "CivilEngineeringDegree-2023",
  "proofs": {
    "jwt": [
      "eyJ0eXAiOiJvcGVuaWQ0dmNpLXByb29mK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6IkVDIiwiY3J2IjoiUC0yNTYiLCJ4IjoiblVXQW9BdjNYWml0aDhFN2kxOU9kYXhPTFlGT3dNLVoyRXVNMDJUaXJUNCIsInkiOiJIc2tIVThCalVpMVU5WHFpN1N3bWo4Z3dBS18weGtjRGpFV183MVNvc0VZIn19",
      "eyJraWQiOiJkaWQ6ZXhhbXBsZTplYmZlYjFmNzEyZWJjNmYxYzI3NmUxMmVjMjEva2V5cy8xIiwiYWxnIjoiRVMyNTYiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QifQ"
    ]
  }
}
```

> Below is a non-normative example of a Credential Request for one Credential in W3C VCDM format using a Credential identifier from the Token Response and key proof type `ldp_vp`:

Reviewer 4: Is this sentence correct, how do we know that it is a request for a W3C VCDM credential if we only have the `credential_identifier`?

I guess `ldp_vp` proof type can be used for any kind of credential request.

   -15

>    * add `credential_configuration_id` to Credential Request

Author: ```suggestion
   * add an option to return credential_identifiers in the Token Response and use them in the Credential Request, when scopes are used in the Authorization Request.
      * add an option to use `credential_configuration_id` in the Credential Request when scopes were used in the authorization request and no credential_identifiers returned in the token response
```
